[hipFile] first pass at documentation (#6747)
ROCm/rocm-systems: projects/hipfile/docs/how-to/use-python-api.rst

.. Generated by ROCm docgen prompt_version=2026-06-03-v18-include-python-and-tighten-meta-leaks at 2026-06-03T14:05:21Z

.. meta::
   :description: Task-oriented guide to using the hipFile Python bindings for GPU-accelerated file I/O.
   :keywords: hipFile, Python, ROCm, GPU, direct I/O, bindings, API

.. provenance:
..   mode: NEW
..   sources:
..     - python/hipfile/__init__.py
..     - python/hipfile/driver.py
..     - python/hipfile/buffer.py
..     - python/hipfile/file.py
..     - python/hipfile/error.py
..     - python/hipfile/enums.py
..     - python/hipfile/properties.py
..     - python/main.py

******************
Use the Python API
******************

The hipFile Python bindings let you perform GPU-accelerated file I/O from Python without writing C code. This page walks through each step of a typical workflow: opening the driver, registering buffers, reading and writing files, handling errors, and querying version and driver properties.

> For a complete worked example that copies a file through GPU memory and verifies the result with SHA-256 hashes, see :doc:`/tutorials/python-file-copy`. For full API signatures and class details, see :doc:`/reference/api-python`.

Reviewer: Repointing to `python-gpu-io` — note this drops the SHA-256 verification mention, since that example doesn't do it.

```suggestion
For a complete worked example that copies a file through GPU memory, see :doc:`/tutorials/python-gpu-io`. For full API signatures and class details, see :doc:`/reference/api-python`.
```
